<p>Defensive publications are documents that provide descriptions and 
artwork of a product, device or method, so that it enters the public 
domain and becomes prior art. This powerful preemptive disclosure 
prevents other parties from obtaining a patent on the product, device or 
method. It enables the original developers or inventors to ensure that 
they have access to their own work by preventing others from later 
making patent claims on it. It also means that they do not have to bear 
the cost of patent applications. Defensive Publications are endorsed by 
the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) as an IP rights 
management tool.</p>
<p>
The Defensive Publications Program is a part of Linux Defenders, which 
is supported by the Open Invention Network (OIN). It enables developers 
and other non-attorneys to submit defensive publications quickly by 
using a simple Web-based form. After submission the defensive 
publication is reviewed and edited as needed by OIN personnel at no 
charge. The completed defensive publication is then added to the IP.com 
database, which is used by Examiners at the USPTO to search for prior 
art when examining patent applications.
</p>
<p>To prevent future patent wars and unencumbered use and reuse of Open 
Source code, we need your help to create defensive publications. At this 
conference you can bring your ideas for inclusion into the Defensive 
Publication program. We will sit down with you, explain how to write a 
defensive publication for your idea and help you write and submit it
</p>
